and Christopher lock here is the
Secretary General of Doctors Without
Borders joins us live from Geneva good
to have you with us so first of all we
know that the icj ruling has said that
the Rafa Crossing should be open that
humanitarian Aid should be increased are
you seeing any sign of the crossing
being opened of compliance with that
ruling no we're not and uh we've been
warning about the catastrophe that would
be an offensive in Rafa for months now
but since the the closure of the
effective closure or the total closure
of the Rafa Crossing on the 7th of May
we are seeing a further strangulation um
of the Gaza Strip we're seeing a further
Collective punishment to the people of
Gaza it is becoming critical in terms of
uh fuel supplies um we've had to
reorganize our our hospitals since uh
since the offensive started in Rafa
including closing moving patients from
hospitals in the Indonesian Rafa field
Hospital the emirati hospital and and
trying to relocate to to the nazza
hospital in um in Rafa but it's becoming
increasingly complicated there as we're
finding supply of water uh critical we
ourselves have had to are unable to um
distribute as much water as we have been
able to last week we were um we were
Distributing around 400,000 liters of
water and this week uh we're down to
50,000 lers of water so 1/8 of what
we've been able to do because of the
fuel shortages and today the reports are
talking about Aid trunks coming through
kamam Abu Salim from what we've seen so
far does it look like all the aid that
is needed will is coming through Karam
Abu
Salam what I would say in terms of Aid
coming into Gaza that's the first step
in the equation that's the first part of
the equation it's also a question of
being able to move Aid around in Gaza
and it's also being able to if you are
running hospitals like we or like we're
trying to it's a question of being able
to have electricity fuel water supply
it's being able to uh be able to have
staff that are healthy are safe are are
mentally fit and physically fit to being
able to to treat um patients and that's
becoming ever increasing um ever complex
problem when we come looking into this
this horrific conflict which has been
going on for months in Gaza now
listening then to what you're saying
would it be enough simply for Israel to
end the offensive in Rafa if the
conflict continues elsewhere in Gaza
would that create the conditions you're
talking about that and allow you to meet
the needs of the population or do you
feel that there needs to be a complete
cessation of all offensive actions in
Gaza well as a as an absolute minimum we
need an immediate and sustained
ceasefire we've been needing that for
months but I would go back to I would go
further than that and look back at at
what the the icj said back on the 26th
of of January and in particular as well
as the protection of um civilians to
make sure that the population of Gaza
are not indiscriminately attacked we've
also they also ruled at that time in
terms of the immediate scale up of
humanitarian assistance and that's yes
moving uh supplies into an all round
Gaza so I would argue that all Crossings
into Gaza need to be open but then
moving supplies around Gaza and being
able to have a situation where you can
have humanitarian Aid workers safely
treat um people all around the Gaza
Strip and we now well over 200
humanitarian workers who've been
tragically killed since the start of
this horrific
conflict in comments posted on the 21st
of May a former Israeli Prime Minister
naali bannet said Israel has allowed
400,000 tons of food and Aid into Gaza
an increase he says an increase
of 30% since before the war now I've
been listening to what you said today
I've been reading the statements by your
organization 3 days later on May the
24th that says quote essential
humanitarian and Medical Aid has barely
entered since the beginning of may do
you see any evidence of an increase of
30% of humanitarian Aid and food
entering Gaza since October the 7th
no and let's let's take a step back here
and what what we're what we're seeing
here is um uh a battle of communication
um as well let's be really clear since
before um October 7th the number of
trucks the amount of Supply coming into
Gaza has reduced since May the 7th when
the Raffa Crossing um uh has been uh has
been closed we've seen an even further
reduction of Supply coming into Gaza but
I would reiterate
um even though that is we're seeing a
strangulation upon strangulation I would
reiterate that it is more than just
simply bringing trucks into the Gaza
Strip humanitarian assistance is a
really complex ecosystem of activities
that we need to um we need to to
legitimize throughout that whole chain
it is not just about crossing the border
it is about moving supplies around the
Border it is about having humanitarian
workers who are safe able to treat
people able to distribute food safely
and to be able to themselves have
somewhere to live and we've just seen
over the last uh the last few days since
the the the raer offensive 900,000
people according to the UN again
displacing after having made the
horrific choice to have to displace
towards uh rafar the alma wayy area
having to displace yet again so this is
much more than a false narrative about
increasing supplies coming into the Gaza
Strip thank you very much for giving us
your perspective on that
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler